### Reflection - Milestone 4

This week we added additional pages to our dashboard, tidied our “Introduction” page, and improved general styling and app layout to make it more professional.

We began work on a Prediction tab for machine learning visualization but were unable to get it production ready. As such, we put the contents into a “future additions” page in order to give users an idea of the direction this dashboard could take in the future. We realized that this feature would require many techniques not covered in class and not easily solved on the internet. In particular, getting plots to show on the dashboard which are generated from packages other than plotly and ggplot proved to be not only difficult, but near impossible as far as we could tell (unless we use static PNG images). Thus, our idea was to try and generate a PNG or html image for each possible graph and then embed these into the dashboard. We couldn’t figure out a way to update the images using callbacks, not to mention that it’s still not the ideal approach to ML visualizations, and decided it would be best to devote our time to other aspects of the dashboard.

A lot of the feedback we received on our earlier iteration was how busy our app looked. Our overview page was a wall of text which worked to immediately turn users away from trying to use the app. We addressed this by cutting down the word count substantially to only include necessary information, and separating the page into a couple of tabs. This way, users could more easily find the information they’re looking for, then capture key information in only a few sentences.

We also learned from feedback that sometimes it’s necessary to reduce the functionality of visualization software to make it more user-friendly. A positive outcome of reduced functionality is that each visualization now has a more focused  goal. In our earlier version, we had a page dedicated to comparing the chemical properties of red wine and white wine. This made for a busy and hard to read correlation matrix plot, as each correlation required overlaid graphics for red and white wines. In the end we removed the functionality of comparing red and white wines entirely, as it’s not relevant to our main goal of predicting quality. Our new page generates correlation matrix plots for a single wine type at a time, and looks much cleaner.

We received feedback from our presentation that it is not immediately obvious what the purpose of the app is, so it was important to us to ensure that every page worked towards the goal of helping users understand how different variables contribute to wine quality. We also altered our presentation to include a use case which showed potential users how our dashboard could address a specific problem as in the scenario.
